  
 
    
 
   
 
          
 
   
 
 
  
     
  
  
 
        
      
  
     
 0 Image in Gray 
200 
400 
600 
800 
1000 
0 250 500 750 0 
200 
400 
600 
800 
000 
1000 0 Image in RGB 
250 500 750 1000 1.& 
Unive~t~ 
oJSan Diego· 
Assignment 4.1 Feature Extraction Exercise 
Part 1 -Feature Extraction 
Start with reading the image shared with on BB (pic1 ©thispersondoesnotexist). Read the image 
using OpenCV and create two versions of it. One colorful and one gray-scaled one. Store the 
Gray scaled image as “pic1_gray.jpg”. We need this image down the road. 
Hint: By default the image may be loaded as BGR and you have to modify it to make it RGB 
a) SIFT: In 2004 , David Lowe introduced Scale -Invariant  Feature transform as a method for 
extracting distinctive invariant features from images. The idea was feature matching between 
images. The biggest advantage of the method is detect ing image features irrespective of 
orientation and size. For this part, please provide the SIFT using OpenCV on colorful image. 
Create two outputs one with sizing and one without it. 
b) FAST: In 2006, Edward Rosten and Tom Drummond proposed “Features from accelerated 
segment test ” (FAST) which is a corner detection method to extract feature points. This is 
especially popular in real-time video processing. OpenCV allows you to create this with or without 
suppression. Create two outputs one with max suppression and one without it. 
1 
        
  
    
 
       
     
 
   
  
    
  
    
 
             
       
 
  
   
 
    
    
    
       
   
 c)ORB: Oriented FAST and Rotated BRIEF (ORB) was originally proposed by Ethan Rublee, 
Vincent Rabaud, Kurt Konolige, and Gary R. Bradski in 2011 (OpenCV Labs). The biggest 
advantage of this method is its robustness to distortion and noise. 
d) One of the aspects of using feature extraction in OpenCV is to find feature matching between 
two images. Use this ability to make comparisons between the colorful and gray image. Print the 
number of matching points. 
Part 2 -Face Recognition 
For this part, we want to see how computer vision can help with face recognition (face detection). 
Start with downloading the image of Assignment_pic2.jpg file ( ©unsplash.com -a free resource of 
images). We need to start with Haar feature detection concept and use Haar cascading 
procedure. You can get more information about haar cascading here. Download the required .xml 
files from assignment package. 
Note: Using cv2.imshow is a tool for showing images in Python. However, this command makes 
crashes in Google colab. Instead use cv2_imshow . You need to call the package using: from 
google.colab.patches import cv2_imshow 
a)Apply the face and eye detection algorithm on the provided image. 
b)Connect your own webcam and see how accurately this can detect you in the image. To make 
it more challenging, you can bring in other people, animals, objects,.. in screen. 
Part 3 -Parameter Detection 
For th e last part of the assignment, create a model that can count the number of apples in the 
image provided in Canvas (‘apple.jpg’). For more information about the procedure, reference 
your Practical Machine Learning for Computer Vision (Laks hmanan, 2021) textbook . Your 
model should print the proper number of apples on the image. 
2 
